Q1 What do we mean when we say that MySQL has a client-server architecture?
A  All client/server models have two parts, a system or server specific part
   referred to as the "server", and a user-specific part that an end user
   uses to interact with the server or system specific part.

   In the context of mysql, the "mysql" program, while the mysqld (referred
   to as the mysql daemon) is the system or server specific part.

   The "mysql" client connects to the "mysqld" server, performing a number
   of tasks including administering databases and databases tables, and
   managing the data within each.

Q3 What is the difference between using the monitor in interactive mode and
   using the monitor in batch mode?
A  Using the monitor in interactive mode allows the execution of single
   MySQL and SQL commands in an interactive environment with command-line
   completion available on demand.

   Using the monitor in batch mode allows for the execution of MySQL and SQL
   commands from an external file which contains one (or more) commands.

   Batch mode can be invoked in two ways:
   1. Specifying the external file that contains one (or more) commands using
      the MySQL "source" command.
   2. Specifying the external file that contains one (or more) commands as
      input to the "mysql" monitor program:

      mysql --user root \
            --password=The_Password \
            --database=Desired_Database \
            < /path/of/external/file.sql

Q4 What do the monitor user, password, and database options do?
A  The "user", "password" and "database" options allow the user to specify:
   (1) The username that the monitor program will use to connect to the
       mysqld server
   (2) The password corresponding to the username specified in the "user"
       option. The monitor will attempt to authenticate itself to the mysqld
       server using the specified username and password.
   (3) If the mysql monitor is able to authenticate itself to the mysqld
       server using the specified username and password, it will attempt
       to connect to the database specified by the "database" option.

       Specifying the "database" option is similar is similar to invoking
       the "use <database name>" MySQL command after successfully authenti-
       cating itself to the mysqld server.
